# Data Analytics for IPL

The IPL auction strategies of the franchises has improved a lot over the years. This had resulted in selection of much more balanced teams for the tenth season which was expected to be the most closely fought IPL season. But midway through season, nearly half the teams were struggling to win games and stay alive in the competition. Clearly lack of talent is not an issue with every team consisted of carefully selected bunch of players.  It comes down largely to right team combination and assigning clear roles to all the players in the team. Especially critical in IPL since players get together only a few days ahead of the season and get to play as a team for only couple of months a year.Throughout the past 10 years, it is very evident that the teams that could find the right combination early on in the tournament invariably made it to the playoffs. This is also the reason for franchises such as CSK, MI, KKR striving to retain the core of the team and unsurprisingly these are the franchises who have won more IPL titles than others. 

That brings us to the question of how to build an ideal T20 side. Are there certain player combinations and player roles that can maximise chances of winning ? In this article, we analyse data from T20 tournaments around the world to see if we can determine the all elusive winning formula. We study if there any commonalities or underlying pattern in the team composition and the playing styles of the successful T20 teams from around the world. In particular, we look at the following aspects,
* Team composition: What constitutes the batting and bowling line ups of a successful T20 team ?
* Player Impact: How to assign specific roles to players during various phases of play in a T20 game ?
* Player contribution: A quantitative method of determining a player’s contribution to winning (or losing) cause.

By answering the above questions, we seek to build an ideal T20 team with the right combinations of players and specific roles assigned to every  player in the team. Based on this analysis, we identify what each of the eight IPL teams lacked in the previous season. We conclude by recommending a few players from the domestic circuit who could fill those missing roles and thereby improve team’s chances of winning IPL 2019.